ci cd docs (#5523)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/user-guide/setting-up-ci-cd.rst

or production environment. Together, they allow for more frequent improvements
to your assistant with less manual effort expended on testing and deployment.

This guide will cover **what** should go in a CI/CD pipeline, specific to a
Rasa project. **How** you implement that pipeline is up to you. There are many
CI/CD tools out there, and you might already have a preferred one. Many Git
repository hosting services like Github, Gitlab, and Bitbucket also provide
their own CI/CD tools that you can make use of. 

Continuous Integration
----------------------

Assistants are best improved with frequent, `incremental updates
<https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/user-guide/improve-assistant/#making-incremental-updates>`_.
No matter how small a change is, you want to be sure that it doesn't introduce
new problems or negatively impact the performance of your model. Most tests are
quick enough to run on every change. However, you can set some more
resource-intentsive tests to run only when certain files have been changed or
when a certain tag is present.

CI checks usually run on commit, or on merge/pull request.

.. contents::
   :local:

Validate Data
#############

> :ref:`Data validation <validate-files>` verifies that there are no mistakes or

Author: right, I remember you mentioned that. I can make a seperate PR for it when this is merged?

> :ref:`Data validation <validate-files>` verifies that there are no mistakes or

Reviewer: i can do it as well 😄

major inconsistencies in your domain file, NLU data, or story data. If ``rasa
data validate`` results in errors, training a model will also fail. By
including the ``--fail-on-warnings`` flag, the command will also fail on
warnings about problems that won't prevent training a model, but might indicate
messy data, such as actions listed in the domain that aren't used in any
stories.

Validate Stories
################

:ref:`Story validation <test-story-files-for-conflicts>` checks if you have any
stories where different bot actions follow from the same dialogue history.
Conflicts between stories will prevent Rasa from learning the correct pattern.
You can run story validation by passing the ``--max-history`` flag to ``rasa
data validate``, either in a seperate check or as part of the data validation
check.

Train a Model
#############

Training a model verifies that your NLU pipeline and policy configurations are
valid and trainable, and it provides a model to test on end-to-end test

> stories. Training a model is also :ref:`part of the continuous deployment

Author: Ah, I see you're right, didn't notice that

training a model on a training set and testing it on a test set. If you use the
latter approach, it is best to shuffle and split your data every time, as
opposed to using a static NLU test set, which can easily become outdated. Since
this can be a fairly resource intensive test, you can set this test to run only
when a certain tag (e.g. "NLU testing required") is present, or only when
changes to NLU data or the NLU pipeline were made.

Testing Action Code
###################

The approach used to test your action code will depend on how it is
implemented. Whichever method of testing your code you choose, you should
include running those tests in your CI pipeline as well. 

Continuous Deployment
---------------------

To get improvements out to your users frequently, you need to automate as
much of the deployment process as possible. 

CD steps usually run on push or merge to a certain branch, once CI checks have
succeeded.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _uploading-a-model:

Deploying your Rasa Model
#########################

You should already have a trained model from running end-to-end testing in your
CI pipeline. You can set up your pipeline to upload the trained model to your

> Rasa server. If you're using Rasa X, you can also 

Reviewer: Lets show them API calls for those (upload model in rasa x at least)

Author: are these right for the general case?

Author: Are these right for the general case?

Author: (the ones I added)

make an `API call <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/api/rasa-x-http-api/#tag/Models/paths/~1projects~1{project_id}~1models~1{model}~1tags~1{tag}/put>`_ 
to tag the uploaded model as ``production`` (or whichever `deployment environment <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_ you want
to deploy it to).

However, if your update includes changes to both your model and your action
code, and these changes depend on each other in any way, you should **not**
automatically tag the model as ``production``. You will first need to build and
deploy your updated action server, so that the new model won't e.g. call
actions that don't exist in the pre-update action server.

Deploying your Action Server
############################

If you're using a `containerized deployment <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/user-guide/docker/building-in-docker/#adding-custom-actions>`_
of your action server, you can automate building a new image, uploading it to
an image repository, and deploying a new image tag for each update to your

> action code. As noted above, you should be careful with automatically deploying

Reviewer: we can link to the building an action server image docs here

a new image tag to production if the action server would be incompatible with
the current production model.

Example CI/CD pipelines
-----------------------

As examples, see the CI/CD pipelines for 
`Sara <https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa-demo/blob/master/.github/workflows/build_and_deploy.yml>`_,
the Rasa assistant that you can talk to on this website, and for

> `Carbon Bot <https://github.com/RasaHQ/carbon-bot/blob/master/.github/workflows/model_ci.yml>`_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Carbon Bot <https://github.com/RasaHQ/carbon-assistant/blob/master/.github/workflows/model_ci.yml>`_. 
```
assistant is the open source one, bot is internal

:desc: Set up a CI/CD pipeline to ensure that iterative improvements are tested and deployed with minimum manual effort

.. _setting-up-ci-cd:

Setting up CI/CD
================

Developing a bot looks a little different than developing a traditional
software application, but that doesn't mean you should abandon software
development best practices. Setting up CI/CD ensures that incremental updates
to your bot are improving it, not harming it.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
--------

Continous Integration (CI) is the practice of merging in code changes
frequently, and automatically testing changes as they are committed. Continuous
Deployment (CD) means automatically deploying integrated changes to a staging
or production environment. Together, they allow for more frequent improvements
to your assistant with less manual effort expended on testing and deployment.

This guide will cover **what** should go in a CI/CD pipeline, specific to a
Rasa project. **How** you implement that pipeline is up to you. There are many
CI/CD tools out there, and you might already have a preferred one. Many Git
repository hosting services like Github, Gitlab, and Bitbucket also provide

> their own CI/CD tools that you can make use of. 

Reviewer: Maybe here we should recommend incorporating their CI/CD into a Git setup (as opposed to a script or whatever) so that they can later <link> use CI/CD with integrated version control </link>

Continuous Integration
----------------------

Assistants are best improved with frequent, `incremental updates
<https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/user-guide/improve-assistant/>`_.
No matter how small a change is, you want to be sure that it doesn't introduce

> new problems or negatively impact the performance of your model. Most tests are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new problems or negatively impact the performance of your assistant. Most tests are
```

quick enough to run on every change. However, you can set some more
resource-intentsive tests to run only when certain files have been changed or
when a certain tag is present.

CI checks usually run on commit, or on merge/pull request.

.. contents::

>    :local:

Reviewer: We should make sure all of the titles are structured the same, 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22333512/78588207-81404600-783e-11ea-9d82-3999f9d5f704.png)

right now we have active verbs, imperative verbs and nouns. I'd lean toward imperative for a pipeline as you're telling it what to do, i.e.

Validate Data
Validate Stories
Train a Model
Test the Assistant
Compare NLU Performance
Test Action Code

Validate Data
#############

:ref:`Data validation <validate-files>` verifies that there are no mistakes or
major inconsistencies in your domain file, NLU data, or story data. 

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa data validate --fail-on-warnings

If ``rasa
data validate`` results in errors, training a model will also fail. By
including the ``--fail-on-warnings`` flag, the command will also fail on
warnings about problems that won't prevent training a model, but might indicate
messy data, such as actions listed in the domain that aren't used in any
stories.

Validate Stories
################

:ref:`Story validation <test-story-files-for-conflicts>` checks if you have any
stories where different bot actions follow from the same dialogue history.

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa data validate --fail-on-warnings --max-history 5

Conflicts between stories will prevent Rasa from learning the correct pattern.
You can run story validation by passing the ``--max-history`` flag to ``rasa

> data validate``, either in a seperate check or as part of the data validation

Reviewer: What do you mean by this? I guess `rasa data validate` also runs `rasa data validate stories` or no?

Author: Not by default, no

Reviewer: okay, so what do you mean by "as part of the data validation"?

Author: Maybe I shouldn't have said that - I meant, they can just run data validation with the max history flag once and that takes care of both data validation and story validation.

Reviewer: ohhh i see so it's the other way around, rasa data validate stories also runs rasa data validate

Reviewer 2: I would probably not mention both. Let's either recommend you add this flag to the previous command or run the whole command again but with the new flag

Author: Ok, I think one step makes sense - no point in running the same tests twice right?

Author: hmm I guess rasa data validate defaults to including story validation now:
```
$ rasa data validate
2020-04-08 09:48:14 INFO     rasa.validator  - Validating intents...
2020-04-08 09:48:14 INFO     rasa.validator  - Validating uniqueness of intents and stories...
2020-04-08 09:48:14 INFO     rasa.validator  - Validating utterances...
2020-04-08 09:48:14 INFO     rasa.validator  - Story structure validation...
```

Reviewer: maybe it makes sense just to merge it into 1 step and describe the 2 things it will do?

check. ``--max-history`` should be set to the value of ``max_history`` in your
config for your memoization policy (which defaults to ``5``).

Train a Model
#############

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa train

Training a model verifies that your NLU pipeline and policy configurations are

> valid and trainable, and it provides a model to user for test conversations. Training a model is also :ref:`part of the continuous deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
valid and trainable, and it provides a model to use for test conversations. Training a model is also :ref:`part of the continuous deployment
```

process <uploading-a-model>`, as you'll need a model to upload to your server. 

End-to-End Testing
##################

Testing your trained model on :ref:`test conversations
<end-to-end-testing>` is the best way to have confidence in how your assistant
will act in certain situations. These stories, written in a modified story
format, allow you to provide entire conversations and test that, given this
user input, your model will behave in the expected manner. This is especially
important as you start introducing more complicated stories from user
conversations. End-to-end testing is only as thorough and accurate as the test
cases you write, so you should always update your test conversations

> concurrently with your training stories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
whenever you make changes to your training stories.
```

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test --stories tests/test_stories.md --fail-on-prediction-errors

To ensure the test will fail if any test conversation fails, add 
the ``--fail-on-prediction-errors`` flag:

Note: End-to-end testing does **not** execute your action code. You will need to
:ref:`test your action code <testing-action-code>` in a seperate step.

NLU Comparison
##############

If you've made significant changes to your NLU training data (such as adding or

> splitting intents, or just adding/changing a lot of examples), you should run a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
splitting intents, or adding/changing a lot of examples), you should run a
```

:ref:`full NLU evaluation <nlu-evaluation>`. You'll want to compare
the performance of the NLU model without your changes to an NLU model with your
changes. 

You can do this by running NLU testing in cross-validation mode:

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test nlu --cross-validation

or by training a model on a training set and testing it on a test set. If you use the train-test

> set approach, it is best to :ref:`shuffle and split your data <train-test-split>` using ``rasa data split`` every time, as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set approach, it is best to :ref:`shuffle and split your data <train-test-split>` using ``rasa data split`` as part of this CI step, as
```

Since NLU comparison can be a fairly resource intensive test, you can set this
test to run only when a certain tag (e.g. "NLU testing required") is present,
or only when changes to NLU data or the NLU pipeline were made. 

.. _testing-action-code:

Testing Action Code
###################

The approach used to test your action code will depend on how it is
implemented. Whichever method of testing your code you choose, you should
include running those tests in your CI pipeline as well. For example, if you
connect to external API's it is recommended to write unit tests to ensure 
that those APIs respond as expected to common inputs.

Continuous Deployment
---------------------

To get improvements out to your users frequently, you need to automate as
much of the deployment process as possible. 

CD steps usually run on push or merge to a certain branch, once CI checks have
succeeded.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _uploading-a-model:

Deploying your Rasa Model
#########################

You should already have a trained model from running end-to-end testing in your
CI pipeline. You can set up your pipeline to upload the trained model to your

> Rasa server. If you're using Rasa X, you can also 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rasa server if you're happy with the CI results. If you're using Rasa X, you can also 
```
Awful phrasing in my suggestion, feel free to rephrase

make an `API call <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/api/rasa-x-http-api/#tag/Models/paths/~1projects~1{project_id}~1models~1{model}~1tags~1{tag}/put>`_ 
to tag the uploaded model as ``production`` (or whichever `deployment environment <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_ you want
to deploy it to).

For Rasa X, this could look something like:

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -k -F "model=@models/my_model.tar.gz" "https://example.rasa.com/api/projects/default/models?api_token={your_api_token}"

>    curl -X PUT "https://example.rasa.com/api/projects/default/models/my_model/tags/production"

Reviewer: Let's keep these as two separate ones bc they might not necessarily always go together (as you mention below), so

You can upload the model automatically, for example in Rasa X this might look like:

code

If using Rasa X you can also tag it automatically as production:

code

However, if your update includes changes to both your model and your action
code, and these changes depend on each other in any way, you should **not**
automatically tag the model as ``production``. You will first need to build and
deploy your updated action server, so that the new model won't e.g. call
actions that don't exist in the pre-update action server.

Deploying your Action Server
############################

If you're using a containerized deployment of your action server, you can
automate `building a new image <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/user-guide/docker/building-in-docker/#adding-custom-actions>`_, 

> uploading it to an image repository, and deploying a new image tag for each

Reviewer: maybe "building and uploading a new image" as one link, since the link covers both?

:desc: Set up a CI/CD pipeline to ensure that iterative improvements to your assistant are tested and deployed with minimum manual effort

.. _setting-up-ci-cd:

Setting up CI/CD
================

> Even though developing an assistant is different than developing a traditional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though developing an assistant differs from developing a traditional
```

--------

Continous Integration (CI) is the practice of merging in code changes
frequently and automatically testing changes as they are committed. Continuous
Deployment (CD) means automatically deploying integrated changes to a staging
or production environment. Together, they allow for more frequent improvements
to your assistant with an efficient workflow for testing and deployment.

This guide will cover **what** should go in a CI/CD pipeline, specific to a
Rasa project. **How** you implement that pipeline is up to you.
There are many CI/CD tools out there: `GitHub Actions <https://github.com/features/actions>`_,
`GitLab CI/CD <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/>`_, `Jenkins <https://jenkins.io/doc/>`_,
`CircleCI <https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/>`_, etc. It is recommended to select one that 
works well with your remote Git repository.

Continuous Integration (CI)
---------------------------

Assistants are best improved with frequent, `incremental updates
<https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/user-guide/improve-assistant/>`_.
No matter how small a change is, you want to be sure that it doesn't introduce
new problems or negatively impact the performance of your assistant. Most tests are

> quick enough to run on every change. However, you can set some more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
quick enough to run on every change. However, you will probably want to run some more
```

> resource-intentsive tests to run only when certain files have been changed or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resource-intentsive tests only when certain files have been changed or
```

> when a certain tag is present.

Reviewer 2: what is a tag?

Author: `...only when certain files have been changed, or when some other indicator is present. For example, in Github, you can label pull requests manually and set the presence of a specific label as a condition for running a test` ?

stories where different bot actions follow from the same dialogue history.
Conflicts between stories will prevent a model from learning the correct
pattern for a dialogue. ``--max-history`` should be set to the value of ``max_history`` in your
config for your memoization policy (which defaults to ``5``).

Train a Model
#############

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa train

Training a model verifies that your NLU pipeline and policy configurations are
valid and trainable, and it provides a model to use for test conversations. 
If your the passes the CI tests, then you can also upload the trained model 
to your server as :ref:`part of the continuous deployment
process <uploading-a-model>`. 

Test the Assistant
##################

Testing your trained model on :ref:`test conversations
<end-to-end-testing>` is the best way to have confidence in how your assistant
will act in certain situations. These stories, written in a modified story
format, allow you to provide entire conversations and test that, given this
user input, your model will behave in the expected manner. This is especially
important as you start introducing more complicated stories from user

> conversations. End-to-end testing is only as thorough and accurate as the test

Reviewer 2: Maybe split into two paragraphs? Potentially at `End-to-end testing is only...`. It is pretty big right now

cases you include, so you should continue to grow your set of test conversations

> as you make improvements to your assistant. Your test conversations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as you make improvements to your assistant. A good rule of thumb is to aim for your test conversations
```

> should be representative of the true distribution of real conversations. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be a representative sample of the true distribution of real conversations. 
```

Rasa X makes it easy to `add test conversations based on real conversations <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/user-guide/improve-assistant.html#add-test-conversation>`_.

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test --stories tests/conversation_tests.md --fail-on-prediction-errors

The ``--fail-on-prediction-errors`` flag ensures the test will fail if any test conversation fails.

Note: End-to-end testing does **not** execute your action code. You will need to
:ref:`test your action code <testing-action-code>` in a seperate step.

Compare NLU Performance
#######################

> If you've made significant changes to your NLU training data (such as adding or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've made significant changes to your NLU training data (such as
```

> splitting intents, or adding/changing a lot of examples), you should run a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
splitting an intent into two intents or adding a lot of training examples), you should run a
```

:ref:`full NLU evaluation <nlu-evaluation>`. You'll want to compare
the performance of the NLU model without your changes to an NLU model with your
changes. 

You can do this by running NLU testing in cross-validation mode:

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test nlu --cross-validation

> or by training a model on a training set and testing it on a test set. If you use the train-test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You could also train a model on a training set and testing it on a test set. If you use the train-test
```

set approach, it is best to :ref:`shuffle and split your data <train-test-split>` using ``rasa data split`` as part of this CI step, as
opposed to using a static NLU test set, which can easily become outdated. 

It's good practice to have this step produce an artifact that can be reviewed
before changes are merged in. For example, `this worflow <https://gist.github.com/amn41/de555c93913a01fbd56df2e2d211862c>`_
includes commenting on a PR with an NLU cross-validation results table.

Since NLU comparison can be a fairly resource intensive test, you can set this

> test to run only when a certain tag (e.g. "NLU testing required") is present,

Reviewer 2: Still not sure what tag means here

Author: sorry didn't see previous comment - here it means something like github  labels. How about `run only when a pull request is labelled as e.g. "NLU testing required"`

Reviewer 2: Not everyone uses GitHub, so we should explain that in more detail and that is just an example of how you might explicitly tell those tests to run

Author: If this is explained in initial mention of tags (above), we could say here `run this test only when certain conditions, like changes to NLU data files or the presence of manual labels,  are met`

or only when changes to NLU data or the NLU pipeline were made. 

.. _testing-action-code:

Test Action Code
################

The approach used to test your action code will depend on how it is
implemented. Whichever method of testing your code you choose, you should
include running those tests in your CI pipeline as well. For example, if you

> connect to external API's it is recommended to write unit tests to ensure 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connect to external APIs it is recommended to write unit tests to ensure 
```

that those APIs respond as expected to common inputs.

Continuous Deployment (CD)
--------------------------

To get improvements out to your users frequently, you will want to automate as
much of the deployment process as possible. 

CD steps usually run on push or merge to a certain branch, once CI checks have
succeeded.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _uploading-a-model:

Deploying your Rasa Model
#########################

You should already have a trained model from running end-to-end testing in your
CI pipeline. You can set up your pipeline to upload the trained model to your
Rasa server if the CI results are satisfactory. For example, in Rasa X this would look like:

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -k -F "model=@models/my_model.tar.gz" "https://example.rasa.com/api/projects/default/models?api_token={your_api_token}"

If you are using Rasa X, you can also `tag the uploaded model <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/api/rasa-x-http-api/#tag/Models/paths/~1projects~1{project_id}~1models~1{model}~1tags~1{tag}/put>`_

> as ``active`` (or, if you're using multiple `deployment environments <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as ``active`` (or whichever deployment you want to tag if using multiple `deployment environments <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_,
```

> :desc: Set up a CI/CD pipeline to ensure that iterative improvements are tested and deployed with minimum manual effort

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:desc: Set up a CI/CD pipeline to ensure that iterative improvements to your assistant are tested and deployed with minimum manual effort
```

.. _setting-up-ci-cd:

Setting up CI/CD
================

> Developing a bot looks a little different than developing a traditional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even though developing an assistant is different than developing a traditional
```

> software application, but that doesn't mean you should abandon software

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
software application, you should still follow software
```

> development best practices. Setting up CI/CD ensures that incremental updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
development best practices. Setting up Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) pipeline ensures that incremental updates
```

to your bot are improving it, not harming it.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
--------

Continous Integration (CI) is the practice of merging in code changes

> frequently, and automatically testing changes as they are committed. Continuous

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
frequently and automatically testing changes as they are committed. Continuous
```

Deployment (CD) means automatically deploying integrated changes to a staging
or production environment. Together, they allow for more frequent improvements

> to your assistant with less manual effort expended on testing and deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to your assistant with an efficient workflow for testing and deployment.
```

This guide will cover **what** should go in a CI/CD pipeline, specific to a
Rasa project. **How** you implement that pipeline is up to you. There are many

> CI/CD tools out there, and you might already have a preferred one. Many Git repository 

Reviewer 2: > There are many CI/CD tools out there, and you might already have a preferred one. Many Git repository hosting services like Github, Gitlab, and Bitbucket provide their own CI/CD tools. It is recommended to incorporate your CI/CD pipeline into a Git repository set up, instead of using a seperate service.

Maybe something more like this...?
> There are many CI/CD tools out there: [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions), [GitLab CI/CD](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/), [Jenkins](https://jenkins.io/doc/), [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/), etc. Selecting one that works well with your remote Git repository is a good idea.

hosting services like Github, Gitlab, and Bitbucket provide
their own CI/CD tools. It is recommended to incorporate
your CI/CD pipeline into a Git repository set up, instead of using a seperate service.

> Continuous Integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Continuous Integration (CI)
```

----------------------

Assistants are best improved with frequent, `incremental updates
<https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/user-guide/improve-assistant/>`_.
No matter how small a change is, you want to be sure that it doesn't introduce
new problems or negatively impact the performance of your assistant. Most tests are
quick enough to run on every change. However, you can set some more
resource-intentsive tests to run only when certain files have been changed or
when a certain tag is present.

> CI checks usually run on commit, or on merge/pull request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is usually best to run CI checks on merge/pull request or on commit.
```

.. contents::
   :local:

Validate Data
#############

:ref:`Data validation <validate-files>` verifies that there are no mistakes or
major inconsistencies in your domain file, NLU data, or story data. 

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa data validate --fail-on-warnings

If ``rasa
data validate`` results in errors, training a model will also fail. By
including the ``--fail-on-warnings`` flag, the command will also fail on
warnings about problems that won't prevent training a model, but might indicate
messy data, such as actions listed in the domain that aren't used in any
stories.

Validate Stories
################

:ref:`Story validation <test-story-files-for-conflicts>` checks if you have any
stories where different bot actions follow from the same dialogue history.

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa data validate --fail-on-warnings --max-history 5

> Conflicts between stories will prevent Rasa from learning the correct pattern.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be worthwhile to give an example of a conflict like we do here:
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1We1EcSp_uA31OooC78sReryhMCkOjEKM#scrollTo=t-QaPJrUjxT-

Author: There's an example at the linked to section of the docs about story validation - I don't think we need to duplicate it

Reviewer 2: That works!

You can run story validation by passing the ``--max-history`` flag to ``rasa
data validate``, either in a seperate check or as part of the data validation
check. ``--max-history`` should be set to the value of ``max_history`` in your
config for your memoization policy (which defaults to ``5``).

Train a Model
#############

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa train

Training a model verifies that your NLU pipeline and policy configurations are

> valid and trainable, and it provides a model to use for test conversations. Training a model is also :ref:`part of the continuous deployment

Reviewer 2: Maybe rephrase this as "If your model passes tests, then you can use also use this trained model as part of your continuous deployment pipeline"

process <uploading-a-model>`, as you'll need a model to upload to your server. 

Test the Assistant
##################

Testing your trained model on :ref:`test conversations

> <end-to-end-testing>` is the best way to have confidence in how your assistant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<end-to-end-testing>` is the best way to ensure your assistant behaves as you expect
```

will act in certain situations. These stories, written in a modified story
format, allow you to provide entire conversations and test that, given this
user input, your model will behave in the expected manner. This is especially
important as you start introducing more complicated stories from user
conversations. End-to-end testing is only as thorough and accurate as the test

> cases you write, so you should always update your test conversations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cases you include, so you should continue to grow your set of test conversations
```

> whenever you make changes to your training stories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as you make improvements to your assistant
```

Reviewer 2: When the test fails, they will know to either fix their assistant or the test

.. code-block:: bash

>    rasa test --stories tests/test_stories.md --fail-on-prediction-errors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   rasa test --stories tests/conversation_tests.md --fail-on-prediction-errors
```

Reviewer 2: Can we keep this file name consistent from rasa init to Rasa X?

Author: good point

To ensure the test will fail if any test conversation fails, add 
the ``--fail-on-prediction-errors`` flag:

> Note: End-to-end testing does **not** execute your action code. You will need to

Reviewer 2: I think I would add a section about turning real conversations into end-to-end tests using Rasa X. Maybe a quick section on how it works and then by a rule of thumb you want to roughly collect a sample of the true distribution of real conversations to use as tests. They get automatically added to tests/conversation_tests.md and then will run them as part of an automated testing pipeline.

Reviewer: I think that should live in the rasa x CI/CD docs, not here

Reviewer: > by a rule of thumb you want to roughly collect a sample of the true distribution of real conversations to use as tests

this is a valid addition though

Author: Ok, I'll add something in the Rasa X pr https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa-x/pull/2413

Author: Oh actually we can just link to the part about adding e2e tests from convos in improving assistants

Reviewer 2: I did not realize there was a Rasa X CI/CD docs PR. That makes sense.

Maybe "by a rule of thumb you want to roughly collect a sample of the true distribution of real conversations to use as tests" + a great way to do that is with Rasa X (linked to Rasa X docs) is the way to do it

Reviewer 2: > Oh actually we can just link to the part about adding e2e tests from convos in improving assistants

I tried to do that earlier and it does not have its own header, so you can't link to it directly unfortunately. We should have something about this in the Rasa X CI/CD docs too, I think

Author: I'll make a header for it, that's a long section anyway

:ref:`test your action code <testing-action-code>` in a seperate step.

Compare NLU Performance
#######################

If you've made significant changes to your NLU training data (such as adding or
splitting intents, or adding/changing a lot of examples), you should run a
:ref:`full NLU evaluation <nlu-evaluation>`. You'll want to compare
the performance of the NLU model without your changes to an NLU model with your
changes. 

You can do this by running NLU testing in cross-validation mode:

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test nlu --cross-validation

or by training a model on a training set and testing it on a test set. If you use the train-test
set approach, it is best to :ref:`shuffle and split your data <train-test-split>` using ``rasa data split`` as part of this CI step, as
opposed to using a static NLU test set, which can easily become outdated. 

Since NLU comparison can be a fairly resource intensive test, you can set this
test to run only when a certain tag (e.g. "NLU testing required") is present,
or only when changes to NLU data or the NLU pipeline were made. 

> 

Reviewer 2: I might add that a good practice is to have the CI stage produce an artifact that to be reviewed before the changes are merged in (e.g. https://gist.github.com/amn41/de555c93913a01fbd56df2e2d211862c)

.. _testing-action-code:

Test Action Code
################

The approach used to test your action code will depend on how it is
implemented. Whichever method of testing your code you choose, you should
include running those tests in your CI pipeline as well. For example, if you
connect to external API's it is recommended to write unit tests to ensure 
that those APIs respond as expected to common inputs.

> Continuous Deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Continuous Deployment (CD)
```

---------------------

> To get improvements out to your users frequently, you need to automate as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get improvements out to your users frequently, you will want to automate as
```

much of the deployment process as possible. 

CD steps usually run on push or merge to a certain branch, once CI checks have
succeeded.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _uploading-a-model:

Deploying your Rasa Model
#########################

You should already have a trained model from running end-to-end testing in your
CI pipeline. You can set up your pipeline to upload the trained model to your
Rasa server if the CI results are satisfactory. For example, in Rasa X this would look like:

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -k -F "model=@models/my_model.tar.gz" "https://example.rasa.com/api/projects/default/models?api_token={your_api_token}"

If you are using Rasa X, you can also `tag the uploaded model <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/api/rasa-x-http-api/#tag/Models/paths/~1projects~1{project_id}~1models~1{model}~1tags~1{tag}/put>`_

> as ``production`` (or whichever `deployment environment <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_ 

Reviewer 2: Can we aim this towards Rasa X users rather than Rasa Enterprise users?

Author: Ok, so you mean rather leave out tagging the model as production? Or you mean tagging it as "Active"?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I am thinking tagging as active

you want to deploy it to):

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -X PUT "https://example.rasa.com/api/projects/default/models/my_model/tags/production"

However, if your update includes changes to both your model and your action
code, and these changes depend on each other in any way, you should **not**
automatically tag the model as ``production``. You will first need to build and
deploy your updated action server, so that the new model won't e.g. call
actions that don't exist in the pre-update action server.

Deploying your Action Server
############################

> If you're using a containerized deployment of your action server, you can

Reviewer 2: How would you use it if you were not using a containerised deployment?

Author: I mean it's possible to just run it from a server without containerizing it but sure it's a pretty bad idea. I'll change it.

automate `building a new image and uploading it <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/user-guide/docker/building-in-docker/#adding-custom-actions>`_, 
to an image repository for each
update to your action code. As noted above, you should be careful with
automatically deploying a new image tag to production if the action server
would be incompatible with the current production model.

Example CI/CD pipelines
-----------------------

As examples, see the CI/CD pipelines for 
`Sara <https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa-demo/blob/master/.github/workflows/build_and_deploy.yml>`_,

> the Rasa assistant that you can talk to on this website, and for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Rasa assistant that you can talk to in the Rasa Docs, and
```

`Carbon Bot <https://github.com/RasaHQ/carbon-assistant/blob/master/.github/workflows/model_ci.yml>`_. 
Both use `Github Actions <https://github.com/features/actions>`_ as a CI/CD tool. These examples are far 

> from the only ways to do it; in fact, if you have a CI/CD set up you'd like to share with the

Reviewer 2: Maybe in its own paragraph?

> These examples are just two of many possibilities. If you have a CI/CD set up you like, please share it with the Rasa community on the Rasa forum

:desc: Set up a CI/CD pipeline to ensure that iterative improvements to your assistant are tested and deployed with minimum manual effort

.. _setting-up-ci-cd:

Setting up CI/CD
================

Even though developing an assistant differs from developing a traditional
software application, you should still follow software

> development best practices. Setting up Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) pipeline ensures that incremental updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
development best practices. Setting up a Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Deployment (CD) pipeline ensures that incremental updates
```

Deployment (CD) means automatically deploying integrated changes to a staging
or production environment. Together, they allow for more frequent improvements
to your assistant with an efficient workflow for testing and deployment.

This guide will cover **what** should go in a CI/CD pipeline, specific to a
Rasa project. **How** you implement that pipeline is up to you.
There are many CI/CD tools out there: `GitHub Actions <https://github.com/features/actions>`_,
`GitLab CI/CD <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/>`_, `Jenkins <https://jenkins.io/doc/>`_,
`CircleCI <https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/>`_, etc. It is recommended to select one that 
works well with your remote Git repository.

Continuous Integration (CI)
---------------------------

Assistants are best improved with frequent, `incremental updates
<https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/user-guide/improve-assistant/>`_.
No matter how small a change is, you want to be sure that it doesn't introduce
new problems or negatively impact the performance of your assistant. Most tests are
quick enough to run on every change. However, you can run some more
resource-intensive tests only when certain files have been changed or when some

> other indicator is present. For example, if your code is hosted in Github, you

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
other indicator is present. For example, if your code is hosted on Github, you
```

> can label pull requests manually as e.g. "NLU testing required" and set the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can label pull requests manually and set the
```

> presence of a specific label as a condition for running a test

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
presence of a specific label as a condition for running a test (e.g. "NLU testing required").
```

> It is usually best to run CI checks on merge/pull request or on commit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is usually best to run CI checks on merge / pull requests or on commit.
```

major inconsistencies in your domain file, NLU data, or story data. 

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa data validate --fail-on-warnings --max-history 5

If data validation results in errors, training a model will also fail. By
including the ``--fail-on-warnings`` flag, validation will also fail on
warnings about problems that won't prevent training a model, but might indicate
messy data, such as actions listed in the domain that aren't used in any
stories. 

Data validation includes :ref:`story structure validation <test-story-files-for-conflicts>`.
Story validation checks if you have any
stories where different bot actions follow from the same dialogue history.
Conflicts between stories will prevent a model from learning the correct
pattern for a dialogue. ``--max-history`` should be set to the value of ``max_history`` in your
config for your memoization policy (which defaults to ``5``).

Train a Model
#############

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa train

Training a model verifies that your NLU pipeline and policy configurations are
valid and trainable, and it provides a model to use for test conversations. 

> If your the passes the CI tests, then you can also upload the trained model 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it passes the CI tests, then you can also upload the trained model 
```

to your server as :ref:`part of the continuous deployment
process <uploading-a-model>`. 

Test the Assistant
##################

Testing your trained model on :ref:`test conversations
<end-to-end-testing>` is the best way to have confidence in how your assistant
will act in certain situations. These stories, written in a modified story
format, allow you to provide entire conversations and test that, given this
user input, your model will behave in the expected manner. This is especially
important as you start introducing more complicated stories from user
conversations. 

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test --stories tests/conversation_tests.md --fail-on-prediction-errors

The ``--fail-on-prediction-errors`` flag ensures the test will fail if any test
conversation fails.

End-to-end testing is only as thorough and accurate as the test
cases you include, so you should continue to grow your set of test conversations

> as you make improvements to your assistant. Your test conversations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as you make improvements to your assistant. A good rule of thumb to follow is that you should aim for your test conversations
```

> should be representative of the true distribution of real conversations. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be representative of the true distribution of real conversations. 
```

Note: End-to-end testing does **not** execute your action code. You will need to
:ref:`test your action code <testing-action-code>` in a seperate step.

Compare NLU Performance
#######################

If you've made significant changes to your NLU training data (e.g.
splitting an intent into two intents or adding a lot of training examples), you should run a
:ref:`full NLU evaluation <nlu-evaluation>`. You'll want to compare
the performance of the NLU model without your changes to an NLU model with your
changes. 

You can do this by running NLU testing in cross-validation mode:

.. code-block:: bash

   rasa test nlu --cross-validation

You could also train a model on a training set and testing it on a test set. If you use the train-test
set approach, it is best to :ref:`shuffle and split your data <train-test-split>` using ``rasa data split`` as part of this CI step, as
opposed to using a static NLU test set, which can easily become outdated. 

It's good practice to have this step produce an artifact that can be reviewed

> before changes are merged in. For example, `this worflow <https://gist.github.com/amn41/de555c93913a01fbd56df2e2d211862c>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
before changes are merged in. For example, `this workflow <https://gist.github.com/amn41/de555c93913a01fbd56df2e2d211862c>`_
```

include running those tests in your CI pipeline as well. For example, if you
connect to external APIs it is recommended to write unit tests to ensure 
that those APIs respond as expected to common inputs.

Continuous Deployment (CD)
--------------------------

To get improvements out to your users frequently, you will want to automate as
much of the deployment process as possible. 

CD steps usually run on push or merge to a certain branch, once CI checks have
succeeded.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _uploading-a-model:

Deploying your Rasa Model
#########################

You should already have a trained model from running end-to-end testing in your
CI pipeline. You can set up your pipeline to upload the trained model to your
Rasa server if the CI results are satisfactory. For example, in Rasa X this would look like:

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -k -F "model=@models/my_model.tar.gz" "https://example.rasa.com/api/projects/default/models?api_token={your_api_token}"

If you are using Rasa X, you can also `tag the uploaded model <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/api/rasa-x-http-api/#tag/Models/paths/~1projects~1{project_id}~1models~1{model}~1tags~1{tag}/put>`_

> as ``active`` (or whichever deployment you want to tag if using multiple `deployment environments <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as ``active`` (or whichever deployment you want to tag if using multiple `deployment environments <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa-x/enterprise/deployment-environments/#>`_):
```

> whichever one you want to deploy to):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

code, and these changes depend on each other in any way, you should **not**
automatically tag the model as ``production``. You will first need to build and
deploy your updated action server, so that the new model won't e.g. call
actions that don't exist in the pre-update action server.

Deploying your Action Server
############################

You can automate 
`building and uploading a new image for your action server <https://rasa.com/docs/rasa/user-guide/docker/building-in-docker/#adding-custom-actions>`_, 
to an image repository for each
update to your action code. As noted above, you should be careful with
automatically deploying a new image tag to production if the action server
would be incompatible with the current production model.

Example CI/CD pipelines
-----------------------

As examples, see the CI/CD pipelines for 
`Sara <https://github.com/RasaHQ/rasa-demo/blob/master/.github/workflows/build_and_deploy.yml>`_,
the Rasa assistant that you can talk to in the Rasa Docs, and
`Carbon Bot <https://github.com/RasaHQ/carbon-assistant/blob/master/.github/workflows/model_ci.yml>`_. 
Both use `Github Actions <https://github.com/features/actions>`_ as a CI/CD tool. 

> These examples are just two of many possibilities. If you have a CI/CD set up you like, please

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These examples are just two of many possibilities. If you have a CI/CD setup you like, please
```
